 HADOOP
Hadoop is a framework that allows distributed processing of large data using simple programming . It is designed for horizontal scaling , rather than relying on a single hardware to deliver high availability .

Hadoop mainly provides a distributed storage (HDFS) and MapReduce to solve certain problems of Big Data World. Both of these core components have some set of processes(daemons).
These daemons are as follow -

    HDFS. •Name Node. • Data Node. • Secondary Node.
    Map reduce. • Job tracking. • Task tracker. But ,in latest version we have HDFS and yarn. The steps for installation of Hadoop are -

Step 1: Download the Java 8 Package. Save this file in your home directory.

Step 2: Extract the Java Tar File.
Command: tar -xvf jdk-8u101-linux-i586.tar.gz

Step 3: Download the Hadoop 2.7.3

Step 4: Extract the Hadoop tar File.
Command: tar -xvf hadoop-2.7.3.tar.gz

Step 5: Add the Hadoop and Java paths in the bash file (.bashrc).
Open. bashrc file. Now, add Hadoop and Java Path as shown below.
Command:  vi .bashrc
Then, save the bash file and close it.
For applying all these changes to the current Terminal, execute the source command.
Command: source .bashrc
To make sure that Java and Hadoop have been properly installed on your system and can be accessed through the Terminal, execute the java -version and hadoop version commands.
Command: java -version
Command: hadoop version

Step 6: Edit the Hadoop Configuration files.
Command: cd hadoop-2.7.3/etc/hadoop/

Step 7: Open core-site.xml and edit the property mentioned below inside configuration tag
Command: vi core-site.xml

Step 8: Edit hdfs-site.xml and edit the property mentioned below inside configuration tag
Command: vi hdfs-site.xml

Step 9: Edit the mapred-site.xml file and edit the property mentioned below inside configuration tag
Command: cp mapred-site.xml.template mapred-site.xml
Command: vi mapred-site.xml.

Step 10: Edit yarn-site.xml and edit the property mentioned below inside configuration tag
Command: vi yarn-site.xml

Step 11: Edit hadoop-env.sh and add the Java Path as mentioned below:
hadoop-env.sh contains the environment variables that are used in the script to run Hadoop like Java home path, etc.
Command: vi hadoop–env.sh

Step 12: Go to Hadoop home directory and format the NameNode.
Command: cd
Command: cd hadoop-2.7.3
Command: bin/hadoop namenode -format

Step 13: Once the NameNode is formatted, go to hadoop-2.7.3/sbin directory and start all the daemons.
Command: cd hadoop-2.7.3/sbin
Either you can start all daemons with a single command or do it individually.
Command: ./start-all.sh

This is how Hadoop is installed .



