                                    KAFKA
Kafka is a messaging system which enables communication between producers and consumers using message based topics . It has replaced JMS ,AMQ8 ,etc

There are two systems for messaging namely

    point to point
    Publish subscribe


In point to pint messaging system one consumer can read a message at a time and after processing the message is lost
In publish subscribe messaging system many consumers can read a message at a particular time and the message is not lost after processing . In this system message producers are known as publish and Kafka consumers are known as subscribers .

ARCHITECTURE:

    producers
    Consumers
    Streamers
    Connectors


Producers permits the applicantion to publish a stream of records to one or more Kafka topics
Consumers permits to takes the data from Kafka topic
Streamers act as steam processor
Connectors are used to connect consumers and producers

COMPONENTS :

    Topic : The data or message transferred from producers is categorised in topics
    Producers : They are used to permit application to publish records
    Consumers : They are used to take the records from Kafka
    Brokers : used to maintain the data
    Zookeepers: It provides broker with metadata regarding processes ,health of broker and leadership in partitions


Partitions are the divisions made in topics sentences and Offsets are the indexing of messages done according to the time at which the message is published .

WORKING :
Producers sends messages which the brokers stores in partitions . The consumers then subscribe to the topic on which Kafka offers the current offset and save in zookeeper . The messages are then processed by consumers .

FEATURES :

    Uses general purpose tools
    Make use of ingest pipelines for message transfer
    Data is replicated with assured durability and availability
    Fast and scalable
    Fault tolerant
    Keeps a log distributed processing
    Messages persist even after processing
    It’s performance rate is up to 100,000 messages/second


INSTALLATIONS :
Step 1. First you need to download the Kafka tar file

Step 2. Untar the Kafka file

Step 3. Goto the Downloads folder
Command : cd Downloads

Step 4 . Rename the file
Command: sudo mv (kafka folder obtain) kafka

Step 5 . Move the file to the local directory
Command : sudo mv kafka /usr/local/kafka

Step 6. Command : sudo chmod -R 777 /usr/local/kafka

Step 7 . Command : sudo chown -R yourusername /usr/local/kafka

Kafka is almost installed

Step 8 . Get out of this folder.
Command : cd
Step 9. Go to the folder in which Kafka is installed
Command : cd / usr/ local/ Kafka

Step 9 . START THE ZOOKEEPER
Command : cd /usr/local/kafka;./bin/zookeeper-server-start.sh config/zookeeper.properties

Step 10.START THE KAFKA SERVER
Command : cd /usr/local/kafka;./bin/kafka-server-start.sh config/server.properties

Step 11. Create the topic
Command : /bin/kafka-topics.sh --zookeeper localhost:2181 --create --topic ( topic name ) --partitions 2 --replication-factor 1

Step 12. Create the console producer
Command : ./ bin/kafka-console-producer.sh --broker-list localhost:9092 --topic ( topic name )

Step 13. Create the console consumer
Command : ./bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --topic ( topic name )

